---
title: "Biography"
layout: about
image: /assets/images/town-hill.jpg
---

## SHORT BIO
Bethan Morgan-Williams (1992–) is a composer whose work explores performer-composer collaboration and the phenomenon of material-drift, where musical ideas evolve significantly from their initial conception. Described as “marvellously oblique and obscure” (5against4) yet “rooted in something ancient and folky” (The Telegraph), her music plays with expectation and variance, fostering co-creative frameworks.
Bethan’s works have been commissioned and performed by soloists such as Carl Rosman, Antoine Tamestit, and Colin Currie, as well as ensembles and orchestras including Ensemble Musikfabrik, Riot Ensemble, the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, and the London Symphony Orchestra. Her music has been broadcast on WDR, S4C, and BBC Radio 3.
A recipient of awards including the Darmstadt Stipend and the Susan Bradshaw Composer Prize (RPS), Bethan is the current holder of the Jonathan Harvey Scholarship and is pursuing a PhD at the University of Huddersfield, researching collaborative methodologies in composition.

## FULL BIO
Bethan Morgan-Williams (1992-) is a composer whose work explores the evolving dynamics of performer-composer collaboration and the transformative phenomenon of ‘material-drift’— a dynamic process through which musical strands evolve significantly from their initial conceptual state. Described as “marvellously oblique and obscure” (5against4) while being “rooted in something ancient and folky” (The Telegraph), Bethan’s music plays with expectation and variance, fostering co-creative frameworks and investigating the interplay between systems and intuition.
Collaboration is a cornerstone of Bethan’s practice, and she regularly works closely with performers. Her music has been commissioned and performed by esteemed soloists, including Carl Rosman, Antoine Tamestit, Colin Currie, and Jennifer Johnston, and by internationally acclaimed ensembles such as Ensemble Mosaik, Ensemble Musikfabrik, Birmingham Contemporary Music Group, Riot Ensemble, and Ensemble 10/10, and orchestras including the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and the London Symphony Orchestra. Her works have been broadcast on WDR, S4C, BBC Radio 3, Hometown Radio (KY), and Omroep Max.
Bethan’s achievements include a Darmstadt Stipend (2023), Leverhulme Scholarship (2018-19), the Susan Bradshaw Composer Prize (RPS – 2017-18), and the Christopher Brooks Composition Prize (RLPO – 2015-17). She has participated in prestigious schemes such as the LSO Panufnik Scheme and has been shortlisted for ISCM World Music Days, a Paul Hamlyn Award, and Manchester Jazz Festival’s Irwin Mitchell Prize.
Currently pursuing a PhD at the University of Huddersfield as the holder of the Jonathan Harvey Scholarship, Bethan is investigating how collaborative processes between composers and performers influence the transformation of musical material over time, developing new co-creative methodologies that expand the possibilities of creative practices.
Bethan is currently Tutor of Composition at Yorkshire Young Musicians (Leeds). She also teaches composition on the Bachelor’s course at the University of Huddersfield and works as a deputy tutor at Junior RNCM.

## EDUCATION
From 2017 to 2019, Bethan pursued a Masters degree in composition at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague, where she was awarded a scholarship to study with Diderik Wagenaar, Peter Adriaansz, Calliope Tsoupaki, and Richard Barrett; she also continued her violin studies with Theodora Geraets. Her research focussed on the listeners' experience of elapsed duration during music listening.
In 2010, Bethan gained a scholarship to study composition with Gary Carpenter and violin with Leland Chen at the Royal Northern College of Music.
In 2001, at the age of nine, Bethan was offered a scholarship to Wells Cathedral School, one of the five specialist music schools in Great Britain, where she studied violin with Catherine Lord, viola with Philip Dukes, piano with Olena Shvetsova, and jazz piano with Dhevdhas Nair.
And before?
Bethan started playing the violin when she was three years old, studying with the late Derek Jackson of Kerry, Newtown. She grew up in mid-Wales playing folk music and accompanying local country dancing, and later took up piano and singing lessons. Bethan won her first solo competition, for under-16 instrumentalists, when just five years old, following this with successes at competitions across Wales, including the Under-12 and Under-15 String Solo classes at the Urdd National Eisteddfod in 2002 and 2003, and the Under-16 String Solo class at the Royal National Eisteddfod of Wales, while still only thirteen. Following on from membership of the North Powys Youth Orchestra – where she led the 2nd violin section from the age of six – and the National Children’s Orchestra from the age of seven, she was a member of the National Children’s Chamber Orchestra in 2005 and the National Youth Chamber Orchestra in 2006. Bethan made her concerto debut – with Khachaturian’s Violin Concerto in D minor – at the age of fourteen, with Kenneth Woods and the Wrexham Symphony Orchestra. Her training as a classical musician has always sat alongside her various other interests – inc. folk, jazz, electronic and contemporary music, having appeared on stage with ensembles ranging from the London Gala Orchestra to the Grammy-winning funk collective Snarky Puppy.
 
Bethan gained early recognition as a composer too, winning the Under-15 Composition class at the Urdd National Eisteddfod in 2004, and with string works performed at Wells, Colston Hall, the University of Bristol, and the Royal Northern College of Music in 2005/6.
